The attack on the world's largest oil processing plant early Saturday morning is a dramatic escalation in the confrontation between Iran and Saudi Arabia -- even if the Iranians didn't fire the drones or missiles responsible.  Workers at the Abqaiq Aramco oil plant in eastern Saudi Arabia heard the first missile land just after 3.50am. They grabbed their gas masks and ran first to the stabilization columns - one of the most vital parts of the facility - which were on fire. The overnight team thought it was an explosion caused by a malfunction - extremely rare but not unheard of at the world’s largest oil processing plant. By strikes two, three, and four, they were in no doubt as to what was happening. This was a deliberate, targeted hit.
The terrorist strikes were still going on when the first team arrived. Some 150 miles away at the exact same moment, a combination of missiles and drones struck a second processing site at Khurais. By sunrise on Saturday the damage to both plants was clear. The first hour is known as the golden hour and they knew they had to try to get a handle before it burned out of control.
Several projectiles struck the Abqaiq plant, starting a series of fires that quickly took out nearly half Saudi's oil production -- 5% of the global daily output -- and sparking fears about the security of the world's oil supplies. Two crude processing facilities were hit: Abqaiq and Khurais. Abqaiq, operated by Saudi giant Aramco, is the world's largest processing plant. 
Saudi Arabia has suffered a number of much smaller-scale and much less consequential attacks in the past few months, almost exclusively at the hands of Iran-backed Houthis which the kingdom is fighting in neighbouring Yemen. Yemen's Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for the attack, saying they conducted the strikes -- using 10 drones -- in retaliation for Saudi Arabia's military campaign against the group in Yemen. But attacks of this scale and accuracy would represent a sudden and remarkable increase in Houthi capabilities, and neither the United States nor Saudi Arabia is buying the claim. 
The Houthis have sent dozens of drones and short-range ballistic missiles against Saudi Arabia in the past two years. Many have been intercepted by Saudi air defenses; others have fallen harmlessly. A very few have caused limited damage and casualties.Saudi Aramco bosses were woken in the middle of the night to be told the news.
Houthi drones are based on Iranian models, themselves often developed from North Korean technology. They are mostly short-range, up to 186 miles (300 km). However, a UN experts' panel reported in January on the deployment of longer-range drones "that would allow the Houthi forces to strike targets deep into Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The UN panel said it had information that one had crashed within 18 miles (30 km) of Riyadh. 
