Saudi Arabia Oil Attack
Saudi Arabia has suffered a number of much smaller-scale and much less consequential attacks in the past few months, almost exclusively at the hands of Iran-backed Houthis which the kingdom is fighting in neighbouring Yemen  The militia did claim the latest strikes - but they were met with widespread skepticism .Attacks on major oil plants in Saudi Arabia have shaken up global oil markets and complicated the already strained relations between the kingdom and its regional arch-rival Iran. Get up to speed fast here.
Two Saudi sources familiar with the kingdom's oil operations tell CNN that restoring production to its pre-attack levels "will take weeks, not days.
Why it matter The attacks cut crude oil output by 5.7 million barrels a day, the state-owned oil giant Saudi Aramco said. Saudi Arabia estimates that's about half of the country's oil production — roughly 5% of the world's daily crude oil output, per the Wall Street Journal.
disrupted.
What they saying: President Trump and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman spoke on the phone Saturday, with Trump offering "his support for Saudi Arabia's self-defense according to deputy White House press secretary Judd Deere.
    • Saudi media reported that the crown prince told Trump, "The kingdom is willing and able to confront and deal with this terrorist aggression."
    • Deere said Trump declared, "Violent actions against civilian areas and infrastructure vital to the global economy only deepen conflict and mistrust." The U.S. "remains committed to ensuring global oil markets are stable and well supplied he added.
    • Why it matters: The attacks cut crude oil output by 5.7 million barrels a day, the state-owned oil giant Saudi Aramco said. Saudi Arabia estimates that's about half of the country's oil production — roughly 5% of the world's daily crude oil output, per the Wall Street Journal.
    • Where it stands: The strikes were the largest attacks on "Saudi Arabia's oil infrastructure in more than a decade,"Bloomberg reports. The energy minister said Saudi Aramco is "working to recover the lost quantities." Saudi Aramco executives held an emergency meeting to determine the damage, per Bloomberg.
Two Saudi sources familiar with the kingdom's oil operations tell CNN that restoring production to its pre-attack levels "will take weeks, not days."
"This is unprecedented in scale, and impact," according to both sources.A senior official told CNN that 19 Saudi targets were struck in Saturday's attack, drawing on,Yemen's Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for the attack, saying they conducted the strikes -- using 10 drones -- in retaliation for Saudi Arabia's military campaign against the group in Yemen.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo blamed Iran at the weekend, without providing any evidence, prompting Tehran to accuse Washington of deceit.
Unnamed US officials have been speaking to the New York Times,The incident has cut global oil supplies by 5% and prices have soared.
