Attack on the world's largest oil processing plant early Saturday morning is a dramatic escalation in the confrontation between Iran and Saudi Arabia, Workers at the Abqaiq Aramco oil plant in eastern Saudi Arabia heard the first missile land just after 3.50 am. The overnight team thought it was an explosion caused by a malfunction extremely rare but not unheard of at the world’s largest oil processing plant. By strikes two, three, and four, they were in no doubt as to what was happening
 “The terrorist strikes were still going on when the first team arrived,” said Khaled al-Ghamdi, operations manager at Abqaiq. This was a deliberate targeted hit a combination of missiles and drones struck a second processing site at Khurais. Oil prices rocketed to record highs - higher even than at the start of the Islamic revolution of 1979. As one official in Riyadh put it to the Telegraph, “such an attack on Saudi’s oil industry is like a knife through its beating heart.” 
Abqaiq, operated by Saudi giant Aramco, is the world's largest processing plant causing a dramatic escalation in tensions between Iran and Saudi Arabia. Attacks on major oil plants in Saudi Arabia have shaken up global oil markets, Yemen's Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for the attack, saying they conducted the strikes using 10 drones in retaliation for Saudi Arabia's military campaign against the group in Yemen. A spokesman for the Houthis also said: "We promise the Saudi regime that the next operation will be wider and more painful if the blockade and aggression continues. "The US has cast doubt on the Houthi statement, placing blame on the group's benefactors, Iran, instead. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo says there is "no evidence the attacks came from Yemen."
.Yemen's Iranian-backed Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for the early Saturday strikes, AP reports. But U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo blamed Iran, saying "there is no evidence the attacks came from Yemen." Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Abbas Mousavi said in a statement the U.S. accusations were "blind, incomprehensible and meaningless." The attacks cut crude oil output by 5.7 million barrels a day, the state-owned oil giant Saudi Aramco said. Saudi Arabia estimates that's about half of the country's oil production — roughly 5% of the world's daily crude oil output, per the Wall Street Journal, President Trump and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman spoke on the phone Saturday, with Trump offering "his support for Saudi Arabia's self-defense," according to deputy White House press secretary Judd Deere.
The United States has issued satellite images and cited intelligence to back its allegation Iran was behind attacks on major Saudi oil facilities. Iran denies involvement in Saturday's air attacks, which were claimed by Iran-aligned Houthi rebels in Yemen. But unnamed US officials speaking to US and international media say the direction and extent of the attacks cast doubt on Houthi involvement. 
