Turkey launched a cross-border military operation against Kurdish-led forces in the region last week, days after previously allied US troops pulled back from the border. Dozens of civilians and fighters have since been killed. Turkey draws no distinction between the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and the PKK, responsible for a four-decade domestic insurgency. Its stated aim is to secure a buffer zone and resettle Syrian refugees there. The Turkish operation - aimed at pushing a Kurdish militia that the Turkish government considers a terrorist group away from the border area and creating a "safe zone" where Syrian refugees can be resettled - has involved air strikes, artillery and ground attacks on targets across the region. It plans to resettle more than three million Syrian refugees currently in Turkey within the zone - many of whom are not Kurds. Critics have warned this could lead to ethnic cleansing of the local Kurdish population. The US is pulling out all of its troops from northern Syria as Turkey advances its operation against the Kurds. Defence Secretary Mark Esper said Turkey "likely intends" to extend its attack further than originally planned. The assault is aimed at forcing out Kurdish forces - the main US ally in the area. They may be seeking help from Syria and Russia, said Mr Esper, and the US would not be defending them. "In the last 24 hours, we learned that the Turks likely intend to extend their attack further south than originally planned, and to the west," he told CBS's Face the Nation. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday the aim of the incursion was to establish a "security zone" that would extend from Kobane in the west to Hassakeh in the east, about 30km deep into Syrian territory. The situation in Syria is becoming "very untenable", US Defence Secretary Mark Esper told CBS's Face the Nation on Sunday. He was unable to give a timeframe for the withdrawal and did not specify where the troops would be moved to next. What's behind the US troops decision? While he said this was "in line" with the safe zone map originally proposed, Hassakeh lies more than 70km away from the Turkish border. Mr Esper said the decision to withdraw the nearly 1,000 US troops from northern Syria was made after discussions with his national security team and US President Donald Trump. France's President, Emmanuel Macron, said the offensive risked creating an "unbearable humanitarian situation". At least 150,000 civilians had fled their homes by Sunday, the UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said. And up to 400,000 may need help in the coming days and weeks. UN Secretary General António Guterres has demanded "sustained, unimpeded and safe humanitarian access to civilians in need" to allow the organisation and its humanitarian partners to carry out their work. Kurdish-led forces in control of north-east Syria have reached a deal with the Assad regime to stave off a bloody five-day-old Turkish assault, as more than 700 people with links to Islamic State have escaped from a detention camp in the area. Kurdish fighters controlling the region would surrender the border towns of Manbij and Kobane to Damascus in a deal brokered by Russia, officials said on Sunday night. Syrian state media said units from President Bashar al-Assad’s army were moving north to “confront Turkish aggression on Syrian territory”. Unconfirmed reports said the deal between the Kurds and the regime would be extended to apply to the whole of north-east Syria. The Turkish offensive and US withdrawal have been internationally criticised, as the Kurdish-led fighters were the main allies of the international coalition against the Islamic State (IS) group in Syria. There are fears about a possible resurgence of the group and the escape of prisoners.