Using Internet of Things (IoT) sensors distributed around the city to provide data in real-time data, Hull City Council says it will be able to better control street lighting, refuse collection, parking and traffic congestion, with the goal of providing better services at a reduced cost.
building on Cisco's platform, we built a central OS that normalises all the data into one language, so that all the sensors can speak to one another seamlessly." The platform, called CityOS, pulls together and aggregates information from a range of different IoT sensors, before passing it on to city operators. This means the data is easier to visualise, and can then be used to better manage resources.
Sensors installed inside the bins monitor waste levels, and the data is used to determine optimal times for waste collection or more efficient collection routes.  
The smartest city in the world is Singapore, the inaugural IMD Smart City Index showed.
Singapore performed well across the board, including for the indicators of public safety, lifelong learning opportunities provided by local institutions, having green spaces, as well as having online access to job listings. Chief economist at IMD Business School's Competitiveness Centre, told The Straits Times: "Singapore topped the ranking because, according to its citizens, it is performing superbly in providing high quality infrastructure in the areas we study, while at the same time adopting technologies in an efficient way to make the lives of the Singaporeans better."
The spread of data from one municipality to another acts as the language that will communicate actionable information in real time, something that has not previously been available. It will be up to each community to decide how it wants to best utilize this new wealth of information.
The insight gathered by new hardware and software around cities and rural areas will only be as good as how it is acted upon.
Huawei’s Intelligent Operation Center (IOC) The results display the overall status of the city and also gives advice on decision making. It also allows urban managers to gauge real-time resource management and keep an eye on the level of resources available in a city.
Huawei’s Cloudlink Board allows for smart classrooms to allow for interactive but remote teaching. Using a combination of 5G, Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data and AI,
The interventions also underlined that new technologies allow efficient management and monitoring of services, with significant benefits for utilities and a reduction in operational costs. Moreover, smart accounting and pricing systems provide data of significant competitive value to operators, while at the same time allowing users to have information on their consumption, with positive effects on their behaviour. 
Coordinators of the Smart City Observatory said “the Smart City observatory established by Bocconi University offers key institutional and industrial players the opportunity to analyse and debate key topics regarding the economic and regulatory dynamics of smart cities.”
