Smart cities: This city runs on its own operating system
Sensors distributed across the city will allow the collection of real-time data to improve services, says the council. Hull has just added its name next to Las Vegas, Copenhagen and Raipur on the list of smart cities around the world, as the Yorkshire port city begins using what it is calls its own operating system to centralize data management and manage resources more efficiently. Sensors installed inside the bins monitor waste levels, and the data is used to determine optimal times for waste collection or more efficient collection routes.  "We are putting the UK back on the map in the internet space," said Alamgir. "It's nice to see the UK innovating ahead of Silicon Valley here.
smartest city in the world is Singapore, the inaugural IMD Smart City Index showed. Published by Swiss business school IMD and the Singapore University of Technology and Design, the index ranked cities in terms of how "smart" they are, which in this case was defined as an urban setting that applies technology to enhance the benefits and diminish the shortcomings of urbanization
While sensors, radars and cameras may be what people think when they envision the smart cities of the future, data will be what make improvement to community life tangible. The insight gathered by new hardware and software around cities and rural areas will only be as good as how it is acted upon. Sarah Glova, Director of Growth and Communications at NC RIoT, recently participated in a prescient session at Smart Cities Connect in National Harbor, Maryland titled If Data is the New Oil, How do We Explore, Extract and Distribute Its Value? Collaboration between neighboring towns and governments is critical to this distribution, and challenges still exist on that front, but creating data standards could lead to more collaboration.
Huawei also has its Intelligent City Surveillance solutions on display. Using a combination of artificial intelligence (AI) enabled cameras, the system can cover specific areas which may be vulnerable. It can track for intrusions, spot an abandoned object, identify when there’s theft is in progress, and look out for suspicious movement. It can track for intrusions, spot an abandoned object, identify when there’s theft is in progress, and look out for suspicious movement
The event featured a keynote speech by Matteo Codazzi, CEO of CESI, a leading consultancy firm in the field and a research partner of Enel Foundation in different projects, as well and a roundtable with the participation of Andrea Caregari head of operations and maintenance at e-distribuzione, the  Enel Group company managing electricity distribution grids in Italy. Professors Giuseppe Franco Ferrari and Edoardo Croci, coordinators of the Smart City Observatory, concluded the event by remarking, “the Smart City observatory established by Bocconi University offers key institutional and industrial players the opportunity to analyse and debate key topics regarding the economic and regulatory the  dynamics of smart cities.” 
