Smart cities: This city runs on its own operating system
Sensors distributed across the city will allow the collection of real-time data to improve services, says the council. 
Using  Internet of Things (IoT) sensors distributed around the city to provide data in real-time data, Hull City Council says it will be able to better control street lighting, refuse collection, parking and traffic congestion, with the goal of providing better services at a reduced cost. 
The council is working with a local telecoms service provider, Connexin, which built on Cisco's Kinetic for Cities platform - a subscription-based software that lets city operators view and manage data from multiple sensors, and from a single panel.
Singapore is world's smartest city: IMD Smart City Index
SINGAPORE - The smartest city in the world is Singapore, the inaugural IMD Smart City Index showed. 
Published by Swiss business school IMD and the Singapore University of Technology and Design, the index ranked cities in terms of how "smart" they are, which in this case was defined as an urban setting that applies technology to enhance the benefits and diminish the shortcomings of urbanisation. 
The survey's findings were derived from the perceptions of the city's citizens, with 120 residents from each city polled on their ideas of two pillars: structures, which refers to the city's existing infrastructure; and technology, which refers to the technological provisions and services available to the residents. 
Why the Future of Smart Cities Comes Down to Data
While sensors, radars and cameras may be what people think when they envision the smart cities of the future, data will be what make improvement to community life tangible. 
The insight gathered by new hardware and software around cities and rural areas will only be as good as how it is acted upon. 
Huawei’s Push For 5G At The IMC 2019 With 5G Airports, AI-Powered Safe Cities And More
Huawei’s Intelligent Operation Center (IOC) — a solution for smart cities in India — collects data from all the different subsystems of a city. 
The results display the overall status of the city and also gives advice on decision making. 
It also allows urban managers to gauge real-time resource management and keep an eye on the level of resources available in a city. 
In case of an emergency, it also allows for integration between service types — like call centers, GIS map, command centers as well as video and voice calling.
Huawei also has its Intelligent City Surveillance solutions on display. 
Infrastructures and networks that boost smart cities
As a founding member of the Smart City Observatory at Bocconi University, Enel Foundation contributed to the event Infrastructures and networks for Smart Cities: what operational efficiency and social value impacts.
The event took place on 15 October in Milan and was organised with support from Bocconi’s GREEN (Centre for Research in Geography, Resources, Environment, Energy and Networks), established to conduct and promote multidisciplinary research oriented towards addressing policy-relevant issues at local and global scale. 
