The attack on the world's largest oil processing plant early Saturday morning is a dramatic escalation in the confrontation between Iran and Saudi Arabia -- even if the Iranians didn't fire the drones or missiles responsible. The Attacks on major oil plants in Saudi Arabia have shaken up global oil markets and complicated the already strained relations between the kingdom and its regional arch-rival Iran. Get up to speed fast here:
The overnight team thought it was an explosion caused by a malfunction - extremely rare but not unheard of at the world’s largest oil processing plant. By strikes two, three, and four, they were in no doubt as to what was happening. This was a deliberate, targeted hit. They grabbed their gas masks and ran first to the stabilization columns - one of the most vital parts of the facility - which were on fire.

The terrorist strikes were still going on when the first team arrived,” said Khaled al-Ghamdi, operations manager at Abqaiq. “The first hour is known as the golden hour and they knew they had to try to get a handle before it burned out of control.”Some 150 miles away at the exact same moment, a combination of missiles and drones struck a second processing site at Khurais. Saudi Aramco bosses were woken in the middle of the night to be told the news.
Coordinated strikes targeted key Saudi Arabian oil facilities early on Saturday morning, causing a dramatic escalation in tensions between Iran and Saudi Arabia. Instead, last weekend’s strikes brought the long-running shadow war between Saudi Arabia and Iran out into the open. If US intelligence is to be believed, this was the first major attack by Iran, from Iran, on its foe. The United States has issued satellite images and cited intelligence to back its allegation Iran was behind attacks on major Saudi oil facilities. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo blamed Iran at the weekend, without providing any evidence, prompting Tehran to accuse Washington of deceit.
Iran denies involvement in Saturday's air attacks, which were claimed by Iran-aligned Houthi rebels in Yemen. In response Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif accused Pompeo of engaging in deception. He wrote on Twitter: "Having failed at 'max pressure', @SecPompeo's turning to 'max deceit' US & its clients are stuck in Yemen because of illusion that weapon superiority will lead to military victory. Blaming Iran won't end disaster." He was referring to the Trump administration's stated "maximum pressure campaign", which has targeted Iran with sanctions since Washington pulled out of an international agreement to limit the scope of Iran's nuclear programme. But unnamed US officials speaking to US and international media say the direction and extent of the attacks cast doubt on Houthi involvement.
Unnamed US officials have been speaking to the New York Times, ABC and Reuters. One official said there were 19 points of impact on the targets and the attacks had come from a west-north-west direction - not Houthi-controlled territory in Yemen, which lies to the south-west of the Saudi oil facilities. The officials said that could suggest launch sites in the northern Gulf, Iran or Iraq. A Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen has accused Iran of providing the weapons.
Supports and arms a coalition of armed groups in Iraq known as the Popular Mobilization Units.  Iraq's government has denied that the country was used as a launching pad for the attacks.
. A US official pointed to the angle at which Saudi oil facilities were attacked, the number of points of impact and other information to argue that it is unlikely the attacks were carried out from Yemen."You can't hit 19 targets with 10 drones like that," the US official said. A US official pointed to the angle at which Saudi oil facilities were attacked, the number of points of impact and other information to argue that it is unlikely the attacks were carried out from Yemen
President Trump and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman spoke on the phone Saturday, with Trump offering "his support for Saudi Arabia's self-defense," according to deputy White House press secretary Judd Deere. Saudi media reported that the crown prince told Trump, "The kingdom is willing and able to confront and deal with this terrorist aggression." Deere said Trump declared, "Violent actions against civilian areas and infrastructure vital to the global economy only deepen conflict and mistrust." The U.S. "remains committed to ensuring global oil markets are stable and well supplied," he added.
So unexpected was it that Tehran might direct and deliver its own assault, Saudi Arabia’s anti-missile defense system was facing south towards Yemen rather than north towards Iran and Iraq. Tehran is suspected of sending its missiles a circuitous route round the northern Persian Gulf through Iraqi air space, which allowed it to successfully evade sophisticated Saudi radars.
A senior official told CNN that 19 Saudi targets were struck in Saturday's attack, drawing on. Houthi rebels in Yemen claimed the attack, saying that 10 drones had targeted Abqaiq, as well as the Khurais oilfield. The Houthi rebels have been fighting the Saudi-backed central government for years in a war that's led to the one of the world's worst humanitarian crises. In January, United Nations investigators wrote that the Houthis had acquired advanced drones that could have a range of up to 930 miles, NYT reports. Saudi Aramco was reviving preparations for a massive IPO when the attacks happened.
 Yemen's Iranian-backed Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for the early Saturday strikes, AP reports. But U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo blamed Iran, saying "there is no evidence the attacks came from Yemen." Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Abbas Mousavi said in a statement the U.S. accusations were "blind, incomprehensible and meaningless." The US has cast doubt on the Houthi statement, placing blame on the group's benefactors, Iran, instead. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo says there is "no evidence the attacks came from Yemen.  

Houthi drones are based on Iranian models, themselves often developed from North Korean technology. They are mostly short-range, up to 186 miles (300 km). However, a UN experts' panel reported in January on the deployment of longer-range drones "that would allow the Houthi forces to strike targets deep into Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The Houthi rebels have been fighting the Saudi-backed central government for years in a war that's led to the one of the world's worst humanitarian crises. A spokesman for the Houthis also said: "We promise the Saudi regime that the next operation will be wider and more painful if the blockade and aggression continues.
Whoever was responsible had managed to cripple the kingdom’s oil production, halving it from more than five million barrels per day to just two overnight. Oil prices rocketed to record highs - higher even than at the start of the Islamic revolution of 1979 and during the Arab-Israeli war oil embargo.The attacks cut crude oil output by 5.7 million barrels a day, the state-owned oil giant Saudi Aramco said.
