The attacks on the world's largest oil processing plant early Saturday morning is a dramatic escalation in the confrontation between Iran and Saudi Arabia, Workers at the Abqaiq Aramco oils plant in eastern Saudi Arabia heard the first missile land just after 3.50 AM. The overnight team thought it was an explosion caused by a malfunction - extremely rare but not unheard of at the world’s largest oil processing plant. By strikes two, three, and four, they were in no doubt as to what was happening Several projectiles struck the Abqaiq plant, starting a series of fires that quickly took out nearly half Saudi's oil production -- 5% of the global daily output -- and sparking fears about the security of the world's oil supplies. It's unclear when Abqaiq, which is operated by Saudi giant Aramco, will be fully operational again or not.
“The terrorist strikes were still going on when the first team arrived,” said Khaled al-Ghamdi, operations manager at Abqaiq. “The first hour is known as the golden hour and they knew they had to try to get a handle before it burned out of control.” This was a deliberate targeted hit (Saudi Aramco bosses were woken in the middle of the night to be told the news a combination of missiles and drones struck a second processing site at Khurais, Saudi. Whoever was responsible had managed to cripple the kingdom’s oil production, halving it from more than five million barrels per day to just two overnights. Oil prices rocketed to record highs - higher even than at the start of the Islamic revolution of 1979 and during the Arab-Israeli war oil embargo. As one official in Riyadh put it to the Telegraph, “such an attack on Saudi’s oil industry is like a knife through its beating heart.” Saudi Arabia has suffered a number of much smaller-scale and much less consequential attacks in the past few months, almost exclusively at the hands of Iran-backed Houthis which the kingdom is fighting in neighboring Yemen, So unexpected was it that Tehran might direct and deliver its own assault, Saudi Arabia’s anti-missile defense system was facing south towards Yemen rather than north towards Iran and Iraq. Tehran is suspected of sending its missiles a circuitous route round the northern Persian Gulf through Iraqi air space, which allowed it to successfully evade sophisticated Saudi radars.
Coordinated strikes targeted key Saudi Arabian oil facilities early on Saturday morning, causing a dramatic escalation in tensions between Iran and Saudi Arabia. Two crude processing facilities were hit: Abqaiq and Khurais. Abqaiq, operated by Saudi giant Aramco, is the world's largest processing plant. Attacks on major oil plants in Saudi Arabia have shaken up global oil markets The attacks started a series of fires that took out nearly half of Saudi's oil productions -- 5% of the global daily output. Two Saudi sources familiar with the kingdom's oil operations tell CNN that restoring production to its pre-attack levels "will take weeks, not days ."This is unprecedented in scale, and impact," according to both sources, Yemen's Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for the attack, saying they conducted the strikes -- using 10 drones -- in retaliation for Saudi Arabia's military campaign against the group in Yemen. A spokesman for the Houthis also said: "We promise the Saudi regime that the next operation will be wider and more painful if the blockade and aggression continues. "The US has cast doubt on the Houthi statement, placing blame on the group's benefactors, Iran, instead. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo says there is "no evidence the attacks came from Yemen." A US official pointed to the angle at which Saudi oil facilities were attacked, the number of points of impact and other information to argue that it is unlikely the attacks were carried out from Yemen. "You can't hit 19 targets with 10 drones like that," the US official said. Instead, the official suggested the attack most likely originated in southern Iraq or Iran. Iran supports and arms a coalition of armed groups in Iraq known as the Popular Mobilization Units. Iraq's government has denied that the country was used as a launching pad for the attacks.
Iran denied Sunday U.S. accusations that it was behind drone attacks targeting the world's largest oil processing facility at Abqaiq and a major oil field at Khurais in Saudi Arabia the previous day. Yemen's Iranian-backed Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for the early Saturday strikes, AP reports. But U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo blamed Iran, saying "there is no evidence the attacks came from Yemen." Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Abbas Mousavi said in a statement the U.S. accusations were "blind, incomprehensible and meaningless." The attacks cut crude oil output by 5.7 million barrels a day, the state-owned oil giant Saudi Aramco said. Saudi Arabia estimates that's about half of the country's oil production — roughly 5% of the world's daily crude oil output, per the Wall Street Journal, The strikes were the largest attacks on "Saudi Arabia's oil infrastructure in more than a decade," Bloomberg reports, President Trump and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman spoke on the phone Saturday, with Trump offering "his support for Saudi Arabia's self-defense," according to deputy White House press secretary Judd Deere. With tensions heightened between the U.S. and Iran, and across the Persian Gulf between Saudi Arabia and Iran —there's a potential "risk to global oil supply," Bloomberg writes. The Houthi rebels have been fighting the Saudi-backed central government for years in a war that's led to the one of the world's worst humanitarian crises.	In January, United Nations investigators wrote that the Houthis had acquired advanced drones that could have a range of up to 930 miles, NYT reports.Saudi Aramco was reviving preparations for a massive IPO when the attacks happened.
The United States has issued satellite images and cited intelligence to back its allegation Iran was behind attacks on major Saudi oil facilities. Iran denies involvement in Saturday's air attacks, which were claimed by Iran-aligned Houthi rebels in Yemen. One official said there were 19 points of impact on the targets and the attacks had come from a west-north-west direction - not Houthi-controlled territory in Yemen, which lies to the south-west of the Saudi oil facilities. The officials said that could suggest launch sites in the northern Gulf, Iran or Iraq. A Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen has accused Iran of providing the weapons, But unnamed US officials speaking to US and international media say the direction and extent of the attacks cast doubt on Houthi involvement Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif tweeted on Sunday to deride Mr Pompeo, saying that "having failed at max pressure, Sec Pompeo's turning to max deceit". He was referring to the Trump administration's stated "maximum pressure campaign", which has targeted Iran with sanctions since Washington pulled out of an international agreement to limit the scope of Iran's nuclear programme.
