Turkey-Syria Offensive
Tens of thousands of civilians have been forced to flee fighting in northern Syria and are in desperate need of humanitarian assistance, the UN has said. Turkey launched a cross-border military operation against Kurdish-led forces in the region last week, days after previously allied US troops pulled back from the border.  President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday the aim of the incursion was to establish a "security zone" that would extend from Kobane in the west to Hassakeh in the east, about 30km deep into Syrian territory. Turkey, however, says the largest unit of of the SDF, the Kurdish YPG, is a terrorist group indistinguishable from the Kurdistan Workers party (PKK), which has fought an insurgency against the Turkish state for decades. Its stated aim is to secure a buffer zone, and resettle Syrian refugees there.  Syrian state media said government forces had entered the strategic town of Manbij, inside the area where Turkey wants to create a "safe zone" cleared of Kurdish fighters.  The Turkish operation - aimed at pushing a Kurdish militia that the Turkish government considers a terrorist group away from the border area and creating a "safe zone" where Syrian refugees can be resettled - has involved air strikes, artillery and ground attacks on targets across the region. Some of the affected areas are also reporting shortages of food, water and electricity. Some 1.5 million people were already in need of health aid before the offensive, the World Health Organization said. The Turkish offensive, which started last week, has drawn an international outcry, as the SDF were the main Western allies in the battle against IS in Syria. At least 150,000 civilians had fled their homes by Sunday, the UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said. And up to 400,000 may need help in the coming days and weeks. More than 130,000 people have fled homes near the conflict, the UN said, warning the figure could soon triple. Critics have warned this could lead to ethnic cleansing of the local Kurdish population. Civilians have been killed on both sides of the border. France's President, Emmanuel Macron, said the offensive risked creating an "unbearable humanitarian situation". But Turkey views the Kurdish groups within the force as terrorists and says it wants to drive them away from a "safe zone" reaching 30km into Syria. With the Syrian government now sending troops to border to try to halt the Turkish offensive and US troops ordered to withdraw, humanitarian organisations fear for the safety of people trapped in the conflict zone. First came the humanitarian catastrophe: around 130,000 people are said to have fled Turkeys offensive already. Kurdish-led forces in control of north-east Syria have reached a deal with the Assad regime to stave off a bloody five-day-old Turkish assault, as more than 700 people with links to Islamic State have escaped from a detention camp in the area. Its grip on them was already fragile; the camps have never been a long-term solution.  Dozens of civilians and fighters have since been killed. "We are trying to reach as many people as possible and are despatching emergency food packages as tens of thousands are fleeing their areas every day," said Corinne Fleischer, the WFP's country director in Syria. Second came allegations from a human rights monitor that nine civilians, including a prominent Kurdish politician, have been executed by Turkish-backed militias. We urged all Kurdish [groups] to show solidarity, but no one listened, Ismat Sheikh Hassan, the leader of the military council in Kobane, told local television. Turkey's offensive aims to push Kurdish forces from the border region. While he said this was "in line" with the safe zone map originally proposed, Hassakeh lies more than 70km away from the Turkish border.  The Turkish offensive and US withdrawal have been internationally criticised, as the Kurdish-led fighters were the main allies of the international coalition against the Islamic State (IS) group in Syria.
