Smart cities: This city runs on its own operating system
Sensors distributed across the city will allow the collection of real-time data to improve services, says the council. Hull has just added its name next to Las Vegas, Copenhagen and Jaipur on the list of smart cities around the world, as the Yorkshire port city begins using what it is calls its own operating system to centralise data management and manage resources more efficiently.
Using Internet of Things (IoT) sensors distributed around the city to provide data in real-time data, Hull City Council says it will be able to better control street lighting, refuse collection, parking and traffic congestion, with the goal of providing better services at a reduced cost. The council is working with a local telecoms service provider, Connexin, which built on Cisco's Kinetic for Cities platform - a subscription-based software that lets city operators view and manage data from multiple sensors, and from a single panel. Furqan Alamgir, founder of Connexin, told ZDNet: "We found that cities struggled to digitalise because they had lots of siloed systems. For example, they might have an LED management system and a traffic management system, but the two wouldn't link to each other. "So, building on Cisco's platform, we built a central OS that normalises all the data into one language, so that all the sensors can speak to one another seamlessly." The platform, called CityOS, pulls together and aggregates information from a range of different IoT sensors, before passing it on to city operators. This means the data is easier to visualise, and can then be used to better manage resources.  Councillor Daren Hale said: "The system pulls together information that currently sits within separate council computer systems that enable city-wide management of the city's public assets in real time." This is not to say that the City Council will become entirely reliant on the technology, and that traffic lights or waste collection will fall apart the day that CityOS encounters IT issues, because the system won't store the data. This also means that the Council can choose whether or not to plug data into it. "We don't want to own the data," said Alamgir, "and it will only be visible to CityOS if the Council allows it to access it. This is the idea behind a 'programmable city'." It was almost a year ago now that Hull announced that it was taking up the Smart City Challenge, and it has already trialled smart bins as part of its partnership with Connexin.
Sensors installed inside the bins monitor waste levels, and the data is used to determine optimal times for waste collection or more efficient collection routes.  "We are putting the UK back on the map in the internet space," said Alamgir. "It's nice to see the UK innovating ahead of Silicon Valley here."
Singapore is world's smartest city: IMD Smart City Index
SINGAPORE - The smartest city in the world is Singapore, the inaugural IMD Smart City Index showed. Published by Swiss business school IMD and the Singapore University of Technology and Design, the index ranked cities in terms of how "smart" they are, which in this case was defined as an urban setting that applies technology to enhance the benefits and diminish the shortcomings of urbanisation. The survey's findings were derived from the perceptions of the city's citizens, with 120 residents from each city polled on their ideas of two pillars: structures, which refers to the city's existing infrastructure; and technology, which refers to the technological provisions and services available to the residents. Under each pillar, the survey also looked at the categories of health and safety, mobility, activities, opportunities, and governance - each of which were in turn broken down into smaller indicators. Singapore performed well across the board, including for the indicators of public safety, lifelong learning opportunities provided by local institutions, having green spaces, as well as having online access to job listings. Mr Christos Cabolis, chief economist at IMD Business School's Competitiveness Centre, told The Straits Times: "Singapore topped the ranking because, according to its citizens, it is performing superbly in providing high quality infrastructure in the areas we study, while at the same time adopting technologies in an efficient way to make the lives of the Singaporeans better." Singapore is only one of two Asian cities to be in the Top 10 of 102 cities. Taipei is the other at No. 7. The rest of the Top 10 smartest cities are Zurich (second), Oslo (third), Geneva (fourth), Copenhagen (fifth), Auckland (sixth), Helsinki (eighth), Bilbao (ninth), and Dusseldorf (10th). The index also surveyed residents on the areas that they perceive to be of priority and as the most urgent for the city. For Singapore, the issues of affordable housing, fulfilling employment, unemployment and public transport came out as the highest priority areas. Mr Ng Chee Khern, Permanent Secretary (Smart Nation & Digital Government), said that the index is useful for policymakers to direct their work to what would most benefit citizens and businesses. He said: "Other indices focused mainly on experts' opinions of how well technology is used, rather than on how citizens feel or do not feel that technology is benefiting them. "For Singapore, our approach to building a Smart Nation has always been extremely citizen and business-focused to help make Singapore a better place to work, live, and play."
Why the Future of Smart Cities Comes Down to Data
While sensors, radars and cameras may be what people think when they envision the smart cities of the future, data will be what make improvement to community life tangible. The insight gathered by new hardware and software around cities and rural areas will only be as good as how it is acted upon. Sarah Glova, Director of Growth and Communications at NC RIoT, recently participated in a prescient session at Smart Cities Connect in National Harbor, Maryland titled If Data is the New Oil, How do We Explore, Extract and Distribute Its Value? Collaboration between neighboring towns and governments is critical to this distribution, and challenges still exist on that front, but creating data standards could lead to more collaboration. You can have a sensor thats collecting data, but is it in the format you need? And as we think about cities that are right next to each other, if Im measuring time in seconds and youre measuring time in minutes, then thats going to be a huge hurdle in how we share our data, Glova told MarketScale. NC RIoT is a North Carolina-based non-profit that brings IoT companies, academics, governments and businesses together to advance connectivity in cities and rural areas alike. The spread of data from one municipality to another acts as the language that will communicate actionable information in real time, something that has not previously been available. It will be up to each community to decide how it wants to best utilize this new wealth of information.
Huawei’s Push For 5G At The IMC 2019 With 5G Airports, AI-Powered Safe Cities And More

5G Smart Cities 
Huawei’s Intelligent Operation Center (IOC) — a solution for smart cities in India — collects data from all the different subsystems of a city. It aggregates the data, cleans it up and analyses the results. The results display the overall status of the city and also gives advice on decision making. It also allows urban managers to gauge real-time resource management and keep an eye on the level of resources available in a city. In case of an emergency, it also allows for integration between service types — like call centers, GIS map, command centers as well as video and voice calling.
5G AI Powered Safe City
Huawei also has its Intelligent City Surveillance solutions on display. Using a combination of artificial intelligence (AI) enabled cameras, the system can cover specific areas which may be vulnerable. It can track for intrusions, spot an abandoned object, identify when there’s theft is in progress, and look out for suspicious movement. It can track for intrusions, spot an abandoned object, identify when there’s theft is in progress, and look out for suspicious movement.
5G Airports
5G airports could be a boon or a bane but either way, the technology is available and on display at IMC 2019. Using Huawei’s 5G network and AI solution, airports will be able to manage passenger flow and flight flow scenarios to optimise travel operations. Smart airport solutions will collect the required data using facial recognition technology allowing for self-service check-in, hierarchical security check, smart navigation, last call, in-flight passenger management, paperless luggage service and more. These services will run on Huawei’s indoor 5G technology that the company has dubbed ‘Wi-Fi 6’. It can support over 200 concurrent connections while maintaining high throughput — which means more bandwidth per user. Huawei believes the Wi-Fi 6 solution can also be applied to virtual reality (VR), 4K video content streaming, self-driving cars, and any high-intensity outdoor venues — like a cricket match or a conference.
5G Smart Education and Remote Classroom
Huawei’s Cloudlink Board allows for smart classrooms to allow for interactive but remote teaching. Using a combination of 5G, Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data and AI, Huawei’s remote classroom solution can also analyse student behaviour and share educational resources. The company also believes that the solution can improve the quality of teaching.
Infrastructures and networks that boost smart cities

As a founding member of the Smart City Observatory at Bocconi University, Enel Foundation contributed to the event Infrastructures and networks for Smart Cities: what operational efficiency and social value impacts.
Part of the discussions included how the application of innovative technologies in infrastructures and networks for the management of energy, water and waste in urban areas creates value - economic, social and environmental - for the various players operating in the system. The event took place on 15 October in Milan and was organised with support from Bocconis GREEN (Centre for Research in Geography, Resources, Environment, Energy and Networks), established to conduct and promote multidisciplinary research oriented towards addressing policy-relevant issues at local and global scale.  
During the meeting, several presentations outlined how energy, water and waste management in urban areas increasingly rely on the use of smart infrastructures and smart grids. The interventions also underlined that new technologies allow efficient management and monitoring of services, with significant benefits for utilities and a reduction in operational costs. Moreover, smart accounting and pricing systems provide data of significant competitive value to operators, while at the same time allowing users to have information on their consumption, with positive effects on their behaviour. 
The event featured a keynote speech by Matteo Codazzi, CEO of CESI, a leading consultancy firm in the field and a research partner of Enel Foundation in different projects, as well and a roundtable with the participation of Andrea Caregari head of operations and maintenance at e-distribuzione, the Enel Group company managing electricity distribution grids in Italy. Professors Giuseppe Franco Ferrari and Edoardo Croci, coordinators of the Smart City Observatory, concluded the event by remarking, the Smart City observatory established by Bocconi University offers key institutional and industrial players the opportunity to analyse and debate key topics regarding the economic and regulatory dynamics of smart cities. 
In addition, they underlined, utility led innovation in the management of infrastructures and networks is a prominent area of advancement in urban sustainability. Enel Foundation actively participates in shaping the research agenda of the observatory and in bringing to evidence the best practices of Enel Group.
