Tens of thousands of civilians have been forced to flee fighting in northern Syria and are in desperate need of humanitarian assistance, the UN has said. Turkey launched a cross-border military operation against Kurdish-led forces in the region last week, days after previously allied US troops pulled back from the border.  President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday the aim of the incursion was to establish a "security zone" that would extend from Kobane in the west to Hassakeh in the east, about 30km deep into Syrian territory. Turkey, however, says the largest unit of of the SDF, the Kurdish YPG, is a terrorist group indistinguishable from the Kurdistan Workers' party (PKK), which has fought an insurgency against the Turkish state for decades. Its stated aim is to secure a buffer zone, and resettle Syrian refugees there.  Syrian state media said government forces had entered the strategic town of Manbij, inside the area where Turkey wants to create a "safe zone" cleared of Kurdish fighters.  The Turkish operation - aimed at pushing a Kurdish militia that the Turkish government considers a terrorist group away from the border area and creating a "safe zone" where Syrian refugees can be resettled - has involved air strikes, artillery and ground attacks on targets across the region. Some of the affected areas are also reporting shortages of food, water and electricity. Some 1.5 million people were already in need of health aid before the offensive, the World Health Organization said. The Turkish offensive, which started last week, has drawn an international outcry, as the SDF were the main Western allies in the battle against IS in Syria. At least 150,000 civilians had fled their homes by Sunday, the UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said. And up to 400,000 may need help in the coming days and weeks. More than 130,000 people have fled homes near the conflict, the UN said, warning the figure could soon triple. Critics have warned this could lead to ethnic cleansing of the local Kurdish population. Civilians have been killed on both sides of the border. France's President, Emmanuel Macron, said the offensive risked creating an "unbearable humanitarian situation". But Turkey views the Kurdish groups within the force as terrorists and says it wants to drive them away from a "safe zone" reaching 30km into Syria. With the Syrian government now sending troops to border to try to halt the Turkish offensive and US troops ordered to withdraw, humanitarian organisations fear for the safety of people trapped in the conflict zone. First came the humanitarian catastrophe: around 130,000 people are said to have fled Turkey's offensive already. Kurdish-led forces in control of north-east Syria have reached a deal with the Assad regime to stave off a bloody five-day-old Turkish assault, as more than 700 people with links to Islamic State have escaped from a detention camp in the area. Its grip on them was already fragile; the camps have never been a long-term solution.  Dozens of civilians and fighters have since been killed. "We are trying to reach as many people as possible and are despatching emergency food packages as tens of thousands are fleeing their areas every day," said Corinne Fleischer, the WFP's country director in Syria. Second came allegations from a human rights monitor that nine civilians, including a prominent Kurdish politician, have been executed by Turkish-backed militias. We urged all Kurdish [groups] to show solidarity, but no one listened, Ismat Sheikh Hassan, the leader of the military council in Kobane, told local television. Turkey's offensive aims to push Kurdish forces from the border region. While he said this was "in line" with the safe zone map originally proposed, Hassakeh lies more than 70km away from the Turkish border.  The Turkish offensive and US withdrawal have been internationally criticised, as the Kurdish-led fighters were the main allies of the international coalition against the Islamic State (IS) group in Syria. The swift deployment followed US Defence Secretary Mark Esper's announcement on Sunday that up to 1,000 US troops would be removed from northern Syria, citing fears that they would end up stuck between "two opposing advancing armies". President Trump's decision last week to move some of his troops from pockets in the north-east of Syria effectively paved the way for the Turkish operation against the Kurdish fighters, who have lost the protection of their US allies. The US is pulling out all of its troops from northern Syria as Turkey advances its operation against the Kurds. France has been hit by a wave of jihadist attacks since 2015, many claimed or inspired by Isis, and has expressed concerns that a Turkish assault would bolster the group. The assault is aimed at forcing out Kurdish forces - the main US ally in the area. Kurdish fighters controlling the region would surrender the border towns of Manbij and Kobane to Damascus in a deal brokered by Russia, officials said on Sunday night. Syrian state TV had already announced the army was heading north to confront Turkish forces. Very smart not to be involved in the intense fighting along the Turkish Border, Mr Trump crowed on Twitter, as though he had not triggered the conflict's outbreak. It plans to resettle more than three million Syrian refugees currently in Turkey within the zone - many of whom are not Kurds. "In the last 24 hours, we learned that the Turks likely intend to extend their attack further south than originally planned, and to the west," he told CBS's Face the Nation. Third came reports that at least 750 people with suspected Islamic State links have fled the Ain Issa camp after Turkish shelling nearby. Mr Esper said the decision to withdraw the nearly 1,000 US troops from northern Syria was made after discussions with his national security team and US President Donald Trump. The situation in Syria is becoming "very untenable", US Defence Secretary Mark Esper told CBS's Face the Nation on Sunday. The deal came after the US, the Kurds' main ally, said it would withdraw its remaining troops from northern Syria.  Turkey's Operation Peace Spring started on Wednesday after Donald Trump's announcement that US forces would withdraw from the region. A shortage of health workers - themselves displaced by the conflict - has made the situation worse, the WHO says. Defence Secretary Mark Esper said Turkey "likely intends" to extend its attack further than originally planned.  The Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), the Kurdish-led fighters under attack from Turkey, warned last week that they would no longer be able to guard suspected IS members and their families in camps and prisons under their control if the Turkish offensive continued.   The area's Kurdish-led fighters, the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), have been funded and trained by the US to combat Isis since 2015, finally defeating the militant group in March after losing 11,000 troops in the battle. Trump had not specified a timeframe for the US withdrawal from Syria, but on Sunday US defence secretary Mark Esper said the remaining 1,000 special forces in the country had been ordered to leave as safely and quickly as possible as the fighting between Turkey and the SDF began to threaten US military positions. Turkey draws no distinction between the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and the PKK, responsible for a four-decade domestic insurgency. But the US defence secretary, Mark Esper, now says that Turkey is likely to attack further south and west than planned; the estimated 1,000 US troops in Syria are accordingly being withdrawn from the country's north to protect them.  Damage to a water pumping station in Ras al-Ain, the main water source for most of Hassakeh province, has increased the risk of outbreaks of infectious diseases. Total disaster? Field hospitals at some camps have also had their medical services affected. A number of hospitals and clinics in northern Syrian towns have closed as a result of the violence. UN Secretary General António Guterres has demanded "sustained, unimpeded and safe humanitarian access to civilians in need" to allow the organisation and its humanitarian partners to carry out their work. After everything, it seems that the fate of the Kurdish people [is to be abandoned].  The national hospital in Ras al-Ain, as well as the national hospital and two health centres in Tal Abyad, are out of action, according to the WHO. And on Sunday, Kurdish officials said nearly 800 relatives of foreign IS members had escaped from Ain Issa, a camp in the north, as clashes raged nearby.  Most people have fled the border towns of Ras al-Ain and Tal Abyad, according to the OCHA, but others have left nearby camps set up for people already displaced by the Syrian civil war and the battle against the Islamic State (IS) group. Measures will be taken in the coming hours to ensure the safety of French military and civilian personnel present in the zone as part of the international coalition fighting Islamic State and humanitarian action, the statement said. Donald Trump's decision to abandon America's Kurdish partners in north-east Syria and wave in Turkish forces was made so abruptly that parts of his own administration were taken by surprise.
