Turkey-Syria Offensive

Turkey launched a cross-border military operation against Kurdish-led forces in the region last week, days after previously allied US troops pulled back from the border. The Turkish operation - aimed at pushing a Kurdish militia that the Turkish government considers a terrorist group away from the border area and creating a "safe zone" where Syrian refugees can be resettled - has involved air strikes, artillery and ground attacks on targets across the region. Turkey’s Operation Peace Spring started on Wednesday after Donald Trump’s announcement that US forces would withdraw from the region. President Trump's decision last week to move some of his troops from pockets in the north-east of Syria effectively paved the way for the Turkish operation against the Kurdish fighters, who have lost the protection of their US allies. Turkey draws no distinction between the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and the PKK, responsible for a four-decade domestic insurgency. Turkey, however, says the largest unit of of the SDF, the Kurdish YPG, is a terrorist group indistinguishable from the Kurdistan Workers’ party (PKK), which has fought an insurgency against the Turkish state for decades. Trump’s decision to abandon the SDF to an inevitable Turkish assault has been widely criticised even by his staunchest allies as a betrayal of a US military partner which has unleashed to a humanitarian disaster and threatens to sow the seeds of Isis’ resurgence amid the chaos. Syrian state media said government forces had entered the strategic town of Manbij, inside the area where Turkey wants to create a "safe zone" cleared of Kurdish fighters. The Turkish offensive and US withdrawal have been internationally criticised, as the Kurdish-led fighters were the main allies of the international coalition against the Islamic State (IS) group in Syria. There are fears about a possible resurgence of the group and the escape of prisoners amid the instability. In 2012, forces loyal to President Assad withdrew from the area to fight rebels elsewhere, letting Kurdish militias take control. Despite disagreeing with their attempts to self-rule, Mr Assad did not seek to retake the territory, especially after the Kurds became partners in the coalition against IS, with US troops in the region. Syria's army has started to reach the north of the country, hours after the government agreed to help Kurdish forces facing Turkey. The agreement represents a significant shift in alliances for the Kurds, who said they had been "stabbed in the back" by President Donald Trump after he pulled dozens of US troops from pockets in the north-east last week. The assault is aimed at forcing out Kurdish forces - the main US ally in the area. They may be seeking help from Syria and Russia, said Mr Esper, and the US would not be defending them. The Turkish offensive, which started last week, has drawn an international outcry, as the SDF were the main Western allies in the battle against IS in Syria. But Turkey views the Kurdish groups within the force as terrorists and says it wants to drive them away from a "safe zone" reaching 30km into Syria. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday the aim of the incursion was to establish a "security zone" that would extend from Kobane in the west to Hassakeh in the east, about 30km deep into Syrian territory. While he said this was "in line" with the safe zone map originally proposed, Hassakeh lies more than 70km away from the Turkish border. UN Secretary General António Guterres has demanded "sustained, unimpeded and safe humanitarian access to civilians in need" to allow the organisation and its humanitarian partners to carry out their work. Turkey's offensive aims to push Kurdish forces from the border region. Syrian state media said government forces had entered the strategic town of Manbij, inside the area where Turkey wants to create a "safe zone" cleared of Kurdish fighters.

The US is pulling out all of its troops from northern Syria as Turkey advances its operation against the Kurds. Its stated aim is to secure a buffer zone, and resettle Syrian refugees there. Tens of thousands of civilians have been forced to flee fighting in northern Syria and are in desperate need of humanitarian assistance, the UN has said. France's President, Emmanuel Macron, said the offensive risked creating an "unbearable humanitarian situation". Most people have fled the border towns of Ras al-Ain and Tal Abyad, according to the OCHA, but others have left nearby camps set up for people already displaced by the Syrian civil war and the battle against the Islamic State (IS) group. The UN also oversaw the evacuation of Mabruka camp, close to the Turkish border, moving its 5,000 residents to Areesheh, to the south, after mortars struck the surrounding area on Thursday. Total disaster, wrote the former US anti-Islamic State envoy, Brett McGurk, on Sunday, summarising the events of the past few days.  First came the humanitarian catastrophe: around 130,000 people are said to have fled Turkey’s offensive already. Second came allegations from a human rights monitor that nine civilians, including a prominent Kurdish politician, have been executed by Turkish-backed militias. Third came reports that at least 750 people with suspected Islamic State links have fled the Ain Issa camp after Turkish shelling nearby. Donald Trump’s decision to abandon America’s Kurdish partners in north-east Syria and wave in Turkish forces was made so abruptly that parts of his own administration were taken by surprise. But the US defence secretary, Mark Esper, now says that Turkey is likely to attack further south and west than planned; the estimated 1,000 US troops in Syria are accordingly being withdrawn from the country’s north to protect them. Defence Secretary Mark Esper said Turkey "likely intends" to extend its attack further than originally planned. The assault is aimed at forcing out Kurdish forces - the main US ally in the area. Impeachment proceedings and the 2020 election have fuelled the US president’s longstanding desire to extract troops from the region. Asked about the potential threat posed by Isis-related prisoners, he shrugged: “They’re going to be escaping to Europe”. The former defence secretary, James Mattis, warns that the resurgence of Isis is a given. That threat is one more reason to press Turkey to halt this deadly offensive. 



At least 150,000 civilians had fled their homes by Sunday, the UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said. And up to 400,000 may need help in the coming days and weeks. Some 1.5 million people were already in need of health aid before the offensive, the World Health Organization said. "We are trying to reach as many people as possible and are despatching emergency food packages as tens of thousands are fleeing their areas every day," said Corinne Fleischer, the WFP's country director in Syria. On Sunday, artillery shells hit several areas close to two camps at Ain Issa, which had been home to 13,000 displaced people, the OCHA said. The grim consequences have arrived with equal speed. But they were widely predicted. The consequences of Mr Trump’s fateful call to the Turkish president, only a week ago, are stacking up. Total disaster? This has only just begun.  The area’s Kurdish-led fighters, the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), have been funded and trained by the US to combat Isis since 2015, finally defeating the militant group in March after losing 11,000 troops in the battle. On Sunday, at least 750 people with suspected links to the militant group reportedly fled a displacement camp in north-east Syria. France has been hit by a wave of jihadist attacks since 2015, many claimed or inspired by Isis, and has expressed concerns that a Turkish assault would bolster the group. Civilians have been killed on both sides of the border. A number of hospitals and clinics in northern Syrian towns have closed as a result of the violence. The national hospital in Ras al-Ain, as well as the national hospital and two health centres in Tal Abyad, are out of action, according to the WHO. Field hospitals at some camps have also had their medical services affected. This is seen as a boost for President Bashar al-Assad as it is the first time his troops, which are backed by Russia, will enter those areas since 2012. More than 130,000 people have fled homes near the conflict, the UN said, warning the figure could soon triple. Apart from being important partners in fighting IS in Syria, the Kurds were fundamental for Washington in limiting the influence of Russia and Iran, US rivals, and keeping some leverage on the ground. A shortage of health workers - themselves displaced by the conflict - has made the situation worse, the WHO says. Some of the affected areas are also reporting shortages of food, water and electricity.
Damage to a water pumping station in Ras al-Ain, the main water source for most of Hassakeh province, has increased the risk of outbreaks of infectious diseases. And on Sunday, Kurdish officials said nearly 800 relatives of foreign IS members had escaped from Ain Issa, a camp in the north, as clashes raged nearby. An "unspecified number of people" have now fled the camp.  Most of those fleeing have sought shelter with relatives, friends or with local communities.
