Turkey-Syria Offensive
Tens of thousands of civilians have been forced to flee fighting in northern Syria and are in desperate need of humanitarian assistance, the UN has said.
Turkey launched a cross-border military operation against Kurdish-led forces in the region last week, days after previously allied US troops pulled back from the border. Dozens of civilians and fighters have since been killed. With the Syrian government now sending troops to border to try to halt the Turkish offensive and US troops ordered to withdraw, humanitarian organisations fear for the safety of people trapped in the conflict zone.
The Turkish operation - aimed at pushing a Kurdish militia that the Turkish government considers a terrorist group away from the border area and creating a "safe zone" where Syrian refugees can be resettled - has involved air strikes, artillery and ground attacks on targets across the region. Civilians have been killed on both sides of the border.
France's President, Emmanuel Macron, said the offensive risked creating an "unbearable humanitarian situation". At least 150,000 civilians had fled their homes by Sunday, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said. And up to 400,000 may need help in the coming days and weeks.
UN Secretary General António Guterres has demanded "sustained, unimpeded and safe humanitarian access to civilians in need" to allow the organisation and its humanitarian partners to carry out their work.
Some 1.5 million people were already in need of health aid before the offensive, the World Health Organization said. "We are trying to reach as many people as possible and are despatching emergency food packages as tens of thousands are fleeing their areas every day," said Corinne Fleischer, the WFP's country director in Syria.
Most people have fled the border towns of Ras al-Ain and Tal Abyad, according to the OCHA, but others have left nearby camps set up for people already displaced by the Syrian civil war and the battle against the Islamic State (IS) group.
On Sunday, artillery shells hit several areas close to two camps at Ain Issa, which had been home to 13,000 displaced people, the OCHA said.
An "unspecified number of people" have now fled the camp.  Most of those fleeing have sought shelter with relatives, friends or with local communities. Others have headed for a number of "collective shelters" across the region, where people are offered help before moving onto more secure accommodation.
The UN also oversaw the evacuation of Mabruka camp, close to the Turkish border, moving its 5,000 residents to Areesheh, to the south, after mortars struck the surrounding area on Thursday. 
A number of hospitals and clinics in northern Syrian towns have closed as a result of the violence. The national hospital in Ras al-Ain, as well as the national hospital and two health centres in Tal Abyad, are out of action, according to the WHO. Field hospitals at some camps have also had their medical services affected.
A shortage of health workers - themselves displaced by the conflict - has made the situation worse, the WHO says. Some of the affected areas are also reporting shortages of food, water and electricity.
Damage to a water pumping station in Ras al-Ain, the main water source for most of Hassakeh province, has increased the risk of outbreaks of infectious diseases.
Total disaster,” wrote the former US anti-Islamic State envoy, Brett McGurk, on Sunday, summarising the events of the past few days. Donald Trump’s decision to abandon America’s Kurdish partners in north-east Syria and wave in Turkish forces was made so abruptly that parts of his own administration were taken by surprise. The grim consequences have arrived with equal speed. But they were widely predicted.
First came the humanitarian catastrophe: around 130,000 people are said to have fled Turkey’s offensive already. Second came allegations from a human rights monitor that nine civilians, including a prominent Kurdish politician, have been executed by Turkish-backed militias. Third came reports that at least 750 people with suspected Islamic State links have fled the Ain Issa camp after Turkish shelling nearby.
Turkey draws no distinction between the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and the PKK, responsible for a four-decade domestic insurgency. Its stated aim is to secure a buffer zone, and resettle Syrian refugees there. But the US defence secretary, Mark Esper, now says that Turkey is likely to attack further south and west than planned; the estimated 1,000 US troops in Syria are accordingly being withdrawn from the country’s north to protect them. “Very smart not to be involved in the intense fighting along the Turkish Border,” Mr Trump crowed on Twitter, as though he had not triggered the conflict’s outbreak.
Impeachment proceedings and the 2020 election have fuelled the US president’s longstanding desire to extract troops from the region. Asked about the potential threat posed by Isis-related prisoners, he shrugged: “They’re going to be escaping to Europe.”
The SDF lost thousands of fighters in the ground war against Isis, and has taken charge of guarding prisoners since. Its grip on them was already fragile; the camps have never been a long-term solution. But faced with the difficulty of securing domestic convictions, and the risk of otherwise allowing dangerous individuals to walk free, Europe has hardly rushed to take responsibility for its nationals. Britain’s decision to strip Shamima Begum of her citizenship was the most glaring example of its determination to treat people born and radicalised here as someone else’s problem. Our duty to children who never chose to go to Syria and who have no one else to turn to – including three British orphans reportedly found at the Ain Issa camp – is particularly compelling. These issues can no longer be put off.
The former defence secretary, James Mattis, warns that the resurgence of Isis is a given. That threat is one more reason to press Turkey to halt this deadly offensive. So is the fact that Kurdish leaders are openly talking about cutting deals with Russia and Bashar al-Assad’s regime. The consequences of Mr Trump’s fateful call to the Turkish president, only a week ago, are stacking up. Total disaster? This has only just begun.
Kurdish-led forces in control of north-east Syria have reached a deal with the Assad regime to stave off a bloody five-day-old Turkish assault, as more than 700 people with links to Islamic State have escaped from a detention camp in the area.
Kurdish fighters controlling the region would surrender the border towns of Manbij and Kobane to Damascus in a deal brokered by Russia, officials said on Sunday night.
Syrian state media said units from President Bashar al-Assad’s army were moving north to “confront Turkish aggression on Syrian territory”. Unconfirmed reports said the deal between the Kurds and the regime would be extended to apply to the whole of north-east Syria.
“After everything, it seems that the fate of the Kurdish people [is to be abandoned]. We did everything that we could, we called upon the international community … but it did not result in a solution. We urged all Kurdish [groups] to show solidarity, but no one listened,” Ismat Sheikh Hassan, the leader of the military council in Kobane, told local television.
The deal is likely to be a bitter end to five years of semi-autonomy for Kurdish groups in north-east Syria, forced by Ankara’s offensive on the area. Turkey’s Operation Peace Spring started on Wednesday after Donald Trump’s announcement that US forces would withdraw from the region.
Trump had not specified a timeframe for the US withdrawal from Syria, but on Sunday US defence secretary Mark Esper said the remaining 1,000 special forces in the country had been ordered to leave “as safely and quickly as possible” as the fighting between Turkey and the SDF began to threaten US military positions. The area’s Kurdish-led fighters, the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), have been funded and trained by the US to combat Isis since 2015, finally defeating the militant group in March after losing 11,000 troops in the battle.
Turkey, however, says the largest unit of of the SDF, the Kurdish YPG, is a terrorist group indistinguishable from the Kurdistan Workers’ party (PKK), which has fought an insurgency against the Turkish state for decades.
Trump’s decision to abandon the SDF to an inevitable Turkish assault has been widely criticised even by his staunchest allies as a betrayal of a US military partner which has unleashed to a humanitarian disaster and threatens to sow the seeds of Isis’ resurgence amid the chaos. On Sunday, at least 750 people with suspected links to the militant group reportedly fled a displacement camp in north-east Syria.
France voiced its concern at the report. Government spokeswoman Sibeth Ndiaye told France 3 television: “I do not know, today, who exactly the people are who fled from the camp; it has been a worry for France since the beginning of this armed intervention.” France has been hit by a wave of jihadist attacks since 2015, many claimed or inspired by Isis, and has expressed concerns that a Turkish assault would bolster the group.
On Monday, the French presidency said in a statement it was taking measures to protect its personnel inside Syria. “Measures will be taken in the coming hours to ensure the safety of French military and civilian personnel present in the zone as part of the international coalition fighting Islamic State and humanitarian action,” the statement said.
Syria's army has started to reach the north of the country, hours after the government agreed to help Kurdish forces facing Turkey.
This is seen as a boost for President Bashar al-Assad as it is the first time his troops, which are backed by Russia, will enter those areas since 2012.
The deal came after the US, the Kurds' main ally, said it would withdraw its remaining troops from northern Syria.
Turkey's offensive aims to push Kurdish forces from the border region. Syrian state media said government forces had entered the strategic town of Manbij, inside the area where Turkey wants to create a "safe zone" cleared of Kurdish fighters. Earlier, the army entered Tal Tamer and Ain Issa, where residents celebrated their arrival.
The swift deployment followed US Defence Secretary Mark Esper's announcement on Sunday that up to 1,000 US troops would be removed from northern Syria, citing fears that they would end up stuck between "two opposing advancing armies".
The Turkish offensive and US withdrawal have been internationally criticised, as the Kurdish-led fighters were the main allies of the international coalition against the Islamic State (IS) group in Syria. There are fears about a possible resurgence of the group and the escape of prisoners amid the instability. 
According to the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in northern Syria, Sunday's agreement will allow the Syrian army to deploy along border areas controlled by Kurdish forces to "repel [Turkish] aggression".
In 2012, forces loyal to President Assad withdrew from the area to fight rebels elsewhere, letting Kurdish militias take control. Despite disagreeing with their attempts to self-rule, Mr Assad did not seek to retake the territory, especially after the Kurds became partners in the coalition against IS, with US troops in the region.
The agreement represents a significant shift in alliances for the Kurds, who said they had been "stabbed in the back" by President Donald Trump after he pulled dozens of US troops from pockets in the north-east last week.
The move effectively paved the way for the operation by Turkey, which views elements of the Kurdish groups in Syria as an extension of the banned Kurdistan Workers' Party, which has fought for Kurdish autonomy in Turkey for three decades.
Apart from being important partners in fighting IS in Syria, the Kurds were fundamental for Washington in limiting the influence of Russia and Iran, US rivals, and keeping some leverage on the ground.
For now, Syrian forces will not be deployed between Tal Abyad and Ras al-Ain, where Turkey has focused its efforts. Kurdish-led officials insisted they would remain in charge politically, and retain order in the area under the deal.
The US is pulling out all of its troops from northern Syria as Turkey advances its operation against the Kurds.
Defence Secretary Mark Esper said Turkey "likely intends" to extend its attack further than originally planned. The assault is aimed at forcing out Kurdish forces - the main US ally in the area. They may be seeking help from Syria and Russia, said Mr Esper, and the US would not be defending them.
Later the Kurds said they had agreed Syria would deploy troops in the area. Syrian state TV had already announced the army was heading north to confront Turkish forces. More than 130,000 people have fled homes near the conflict, the UN said, warning the figure could soon triple.
The Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), the Kurdish-led fighters under attack from Turkey, warned last week that they would no longer be able to guard suspected IS members and their families in camps and prisons under their control if the Turkish offensive continued. 
And on Sunday, Kurdish officials said nearly 800 relatives of foreign IS members had escaped from Ain Issa, a camp in the north, as clashes raged nearby. 
The Turkish offensive, which started last week, has drawn an international outcry, as the SDF were the main Western allies in the battle against IS in Syria. But Turkey views the Kurdish groups within the force as terrorists and says it wants to drive them away from a "safe zone" reaching 30km into Syria.
It plans to resettle more than three million Syrian refugees currently in Turkey within the zone - many of whom are not Kurds. Critics have warned this could lead to ethnic cleansing of the local Kurdish population.
What's behind the US troops decision?
The situation in Syria is becoming "very untenable", US Defence Secretary Mark Esper told CBS's Face the Nation on Sunday. 
"In the last 24 hours, we learned that the Turks likely intend to extend their attack further south than originally planned, and to the west," he told CBS's Face the Nation.
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday the aim of the incursion was to establish a "security zone" that would extend from Kobane in the west to Hassakeh in the east, about 30km deep into Syrian territory.
While he said this was "in line" with the safe zone map originally proposed, Hassakeh lies more than 70km away from the Turkish border.
Mr Esper said the decision to withdraw the nearly 1,000 US troops from northern Syria was made after discussions with his national security team and US President Donald Trump. 
He was unable to give a timeframe for the withdrawal and did not specify where the troops would be moved to next.

President Trump's decision last week to move some of his troops from pockets in the north-east of Syria effectively paved the way for the Turkish operation against the Kurdish fighters, who have lost the protection of their US allies.
 On Sunday, he tweeted that it was "very smart" not to be involved in the fighting "for a change".
