Attack on the world's largest oil processing plant early Saturday morning is a dramatic escalation in the confrontation between Iran and Saudi Arabia, Workers at the Abqaiq Aramco oil plant in eastern Saudi Arabia heard the first missile land just after 3.50am. The overnight team thought it was an explosion caused by a malfunction - extremely rare but not unheard of at the world’s largest oil processing plant. By strikes two, three, and four, they were in no doubt as to what was happening
“The terrorist strikes were still going on when the first team arrived,” said Khaled al-Ghamdi, operations manager at Abqaiq. “The first hour is known as the golden hour and they knew they had to try to get a handle before it burned out of control.” This was a deliberate targeted hit Saudi Aramco bosses were woken up in the middle of night for the news of a combination of missiles and drones struck a second processing site at Khurais. Oil prices rocketed to record highs - higher even than at the start of the Islamic revolution of 1979. As one official in Riyadh put it to the Telegraph, “such an attack on Saudi’s oil industry is like a knife through its beating heart.” Saudi Arabia has suffered a number of much smaller-scale and much less consequential attacks in the past few months, almost exclusively at the hands of Iran-backed Houthis which the kingdom is fighting in neighboring Yemen.
Coordinated strikes targeted key Saudi Arabian oil facilities early on Saturday morning, causing a dramatic escalation in tensions between Iran and Saudi Arabia. Two crude processing facilities were hit. Abqaiq, operated by Saudi giant Aramco, is the world's largest processing plant. Attacks on major oil plants in Saudi Arabia have shaken up global oil markets The attacks started a series of fires that took out nearly half of Saudi's oil production 5% of the global daily output. Two Saudi sources familiar with the kingdom's oil operations tell CNN that restoring production to its pre-attack levels "will take weeks, not days ."This is unprecedented in scale, and impact," according to both sources, Yemen's Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for the attack, saying they conducted the strikes using 10 drones in retaliation for Saudi Arabia's military campaign against the group in Yemen. A spokesman for the Houthis also said: "We promise the Saudi regime that the next operation will be wider and more painful if the blockade and aggression continues. "The US has cast doubt on the Houthi statement, placing blame on the group's benefactors, Iran, instead. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo says there is "no evidence the attacks came from Yemen."
Iran denied Sunday U.S. accusations that it was behind drone attacks targeting the world's largest oil processing facility at Abqaiq and a major oil field at Khurais in Saudi Arabia the previous day. Yemen's Iranian-backed Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for the early Saturday strikes, AP reports. But U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo blamed Iran, saying "there is no evidence the attacks came from Yemen." Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Abbas Mousavi said in a statement the U.S. accusations were "blind, incomprehensible and meaningless." The attacks cut crude oil output by 5.7 million barrels a day, the state-owned oil giant Saudi Aramco said. Saudi Arabia estimates that's about half of the country's oil production roughly 5% of the world's daily crude oil output, per the Wall Street Journal, The strikes were the largest attacks on "Saudi Arabia's oil infrastructure in more than a decade," Bloomberg reports, President Trump and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman spoke on the phone Saturday, with Trump offering "his support for Saudi Arabia's self-defense," according to deputy White House press secretary Judd Deere. With tensions heightened between the U.S. and Iran, and across the Persian Gulf between Saudi Arabia and Iran there's a potential "risk to global oil supply," Bloomberg writes.
The United States has issued satellite images and cited intelligence to back its allegation Iran was behind attacks on major Saudi oil facilities. Iran denies involvement in Saturday's air attacks, which were claimed by Iran-aligned Houthi rebels in Yemen. But unnamed US officials speaking to US and international media say the direction and extent of the attacks cast doubt on Houthi involvement Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif tweeted on Sunday to deride Mr Pompeo, saying that "having failed at max pressure, Sec Pompeo's turning to max deceit".

He was referring to the Trump administration's stated "maximum pressure campaign", which has targeted Iran with sanctions since Washington pulled out of an international agreement to limit the scope of Iran's nuclear programme.
