Inside the Saudi oil plants hit in drone attack blamed on Iran
Workers at the Abqaiq Aramco oil plant in eastern Saudi Arabia heard the first missile land just after 3.50am. 
The overnight team thought it was an explosion caused by a malfunction - extremely rare but not unheard of at the world’s largest oil processing plant. By strikes two, three, and four, they were in no doubt as to what was happening. This was a deliberate, targeted hit.
Some 150 miles away at the exact same moment, a combination of missiles and drones struck a second processing site at Khurais. Saudi Aramco bosses were woken in the middle of the night to be told the news.
Saudi Arabia has suffered a number of much smaller-scale and much less consequential attacks in the past few months, almost exclusively at the hands of Iran-backed Houthis which the kingdom is fighting in neighbouring Yemen. The militia did claim the latest strikes - but they were met with widespread skepticism. 
Attack on Saudi oil field a game-changer in Gulf confrontation
The attack on the world's largest oil processing plant early Saturday morning is a dramatic escalation in the confrontation between Iran and Saudi Arabia -- even if the Iranians didn't fire the drones or missiles responsible.
Several projectiles struck the Abqaiq plant, starting a series of fires that quickly took out nearly half Saudi's oil production -- 5% of the global daily output -- and sparking fears about the security of the world's oil supplies.
Houthi rebels in Yemen claimed the attack, saying that 10 drones had targeted Abqaiq, as well as the Khurais oilfield. But attacks of this scale and accuracy would represent a sudden and remarkable increase in Houthi capabilities, and neither the United States nor Saudi Arabia is buying the claim.
The UN panel said it had information that one had crashed within 18 miles (30 km) of Riyadh.
A source with knowledge of the incident told CNN National Security Analyst Peter Bergen late Saturday that preliminary indications were the drones/missiles "did not originate from Yemen and likely originated from Iraq." A second source in the Gulf region told CNN that while there was no proof yet; the indications were that the attack originated in southern Iraq.
Attacks on Saudi plants disrupt 5% of world's oil production

Attacks on major oil plants in Saudi Arabia have shaken up global oil markets and complicated the already strained relations between the kingdom and its regional arch-rival Iran.
 Coordinated strikes targeted key Saudi Arabian oil facilities early on Saturday morning, causing a dramatic escalation in tensions between Iran and Saudi Arabia.
Two crude processing facilities were hit: Abqaiq and Khurais. Abqaiq, operated by Saudi giant Aramco, is the world's largest processing plant.
The attacks started a series of fires that took out nearly half of Saudi's oil production -- 5% of the global daily output.
Two Saudi sources familiar with the kingdom's oil operations tell CNN that restoring production to its pre-attack levels "will take weeks, not days."
"This is unprecedented in scale, and impact," according to both sources.
Saudi oil sites hit by drone strikes: U.S. blames Iran
Iran denied Sunday U.S. accusations that it was behind drone attacks targeting the world's largest oil processing facility at Abqaiq and a major oil field at Khurais in Saudi Arabia the previous day.
The latest: Yemen's Iranian-backed Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for the early Saturday strikes, AP reports. But U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo blamed Iran, saying "there is no evidence the attacks came from Yemen." Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Abbas Mousavi said in a statement the U.S. accusations were "blind, incomprehensible and meaningless."
The big picture: With tensions heightened between the U.S. and Iran, and across the Persian Gulf between Saudi Arabia and Iran —there's a potential "risk to global oil supply," Bloomberg writes.
    • The Houthi rebels have been fighting the Saudi-backed central government for years in a war that's led to the one of the world's worst humanitarian crises.
    • In January, United Nations investigators wrote that the Houthis had acquired advanced drones that could have a range of up to 930 miles, NYT reports.
    • Saudi Aramco was reviving preparations for a massive IPO when the attacks happened.

Saudi oil attacks: US says intelligence shows Iran involved.

The United States has issued satellite images and cited intelligence to back its allegation Iran was behind attacks on major Saudi oil facilities.
Iran denies involvement in Saturday's air attacks, which were claimed by Iran-aligned Houthi rebels in Yemen.
But unnamed US officials speaking to US and international media say the direction and extent of the attacks cast doubt on Houthi involvement.

One official said there were 19 points of impact on the targets and the attacks had come from a west-north-west direction - not Houthi-controlled territory in Yemen, which lies to the south-west of the Saudi oil facilities.
