Turkey-Syria Offensive

Tens of thousands of civilians have been forced to flee fighting in northern Syria and are in desperate need of humanitarian assistance, the UN has said. The Turkish operation - aimed at pushing a Kurdish militia that the Turkish government considers a terrorist group away from the border area and creating a "safe zone" where Syrian refugees can be resettled - has involved air strikes, artillery and ground attacks on targets across the region. Damage to a water pumping station in Ras al-Ain, the main water source for most of Hassakeh province, has increased the risk of outbreaks of infectious diseases. Total disaster, wrote the former US anti-Islamic State envoy, Brett McGurk, on Sunday, summarising the events of the past few days. Kurdish-led forces in control of north-east Syria have reached a deal with the Assad regime to stave off a bloody five-day-old Turkish assault, as more than 700 people with links to Islamic State have escaped from a detention camp in the area. Syrian state media said units from President Bashar al-Assad's army were moving north to confront Turkish aggression on Syrian territory. Unconfirmed reports said the deal between the Kurds and the regime would be extended to apply to the whole of north-east Syria. France voiced its concern at the report. Syria's army has started to reach the north of the country, hours after the government agreed to help Kurdish forces facing Turkey. The deal came after the US, the Kurds' main ally, said it would withdraw its remaining troops from northern Syria. The swift deployment followed US Defence Secretary Mark Esper's announcement on Sunday that up to 1,000 US troops would be removed from northern Syria, According to the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in northern Syria, Sunday's agreement will allow the Syrian army to deploy along border areas controlled by Kurdish forces to "repel [Turkish] aggression".
The US is pulling out all of its troops from northern Syria as Turkey advances its operation against the Kurds. Later the Kurds said they had agreed Syria would deploy troops in the area. Syrian state TV had already announced the army was heading north to confront Turkish forces. And on Sunday, Kurdish officials said nearly 800 relatives of foreign IS members had escaped from Ain Issa, a camp in the north, as clashes raged nearby. It plans to resettle more than three million Syrian refugees currently in Turkey within the zone - many of whom are not Kurds. Critics have warned this could lead to ethnic cleansing of the local Kurdish population. What's behind the US troops decision?
While he said this was "in line" with the safe zone map originally proposed, Hassakeh lies more than 70km away from the Turkish border.On Sunday, he tweeted that it was "very smart" not to be involved in the fighting "for a change". Defence Secretary Mark Esper said Turkey "likely intends" to extend its attack further than originally planned. The assault is aimed at forcing out Kurdish forces - the main US ally in the area. More than 130,000 people have fled homes near the conflict, the UN said, warning the figure could soon triple.
The Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), the Kurdish-led fighters under attack from Turkey, warned last week that they would no longer be able to guard suspected IS members and their families in camps and prisons under their control if the Turkish offensive continued. The move effectively paved the way for the operation by Turkey, which views elements of the Kurdish groups in Syria as an extension of the banned Kurdistan Workers' Party, which has fought for Kurdish autonomy in Turkey for three decades. 
The Turkish offensive and US withdrawal have been internationally criticised, as the Kurdish-led fighters were the main allies of the international coalition against the Islamic State (IS) group in Syria. This is seen as a boost for President Bashar al-Assad as it is the first time his troops, which are backed by Russia, will enter those areas since 2012. After everything, it seems that the fate of the Kurdish people [is to be abandoned]. We did everything that we could, we called upon the international community ' but it did not result in a solution. Kurdish fighters controlling the region would surrender the border towns of Manbij and Kobane to Damascus in a deal brokered by Russia, officials said on Sunday night.
Turkey draws no distinction between the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and the PKK, responsible for a four-decade domestic insurgency. Donald Trump's decision to abandon America's Kurdish partners in north-east Syria and wave in Turkish forces was made so abruptly that parts of his own administration were taken by surprise. The grim consequences have arrived with equal speed. . Third came reports that at least 750 people with suspected Islamic State links have fled the Ain Issa camp after Turkish shelling nearby.
The SDF lost thousands of fighters in the ground war against Isis, and has taken charge of guarding prisoners since. Its grip on them was already fragile; the camps have never been a long-term solution. The former defence secretary, James Mattis, warns that the resurgence of Isis is a given. That threat is one more reason to press Turkey to halt this deadly offensive. So is the fact that Kurdish leaders are openly talking about cutting deals with Russia and Bashar al-Assad's regime. The consequences of Mr Trump's fateful call to the Turkish president, only a week ago, are stacking up. Total disaster? This has only just begun.We urged all Kurdish [groups] to show solidarity, but no one listened, Ismat Sheikh Hassan, the leader of the military council in Kobane, told local television.
On Sunday, at least 750 people with suspected links to the militant group reportedly fled a displacement camp in north-east Syria.On Monday, the French presidency said in a statement it was taking measures to protect its personnel inside Syria.

