Smart cities: This city runs on its own operating system
Using Internet of Things (IoT) sensors distributed around the city to provide data in real-time data, Hull City Council says it will be able to better control street lighting, refuse collection, parking and traffic congestion, with the goal of providing better services at a reduced cost.  As a founding member of the Smart City Observatory at Bocconi University
Huawei’s Cloudlink Board allows for smart classrooms to allow for interactive but remote teaching. Using a combination of 5G, Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data and AI, Huawei’s remote classroom solution can also analyse student behaviour and share educational resources. The company also believes that the solution can improve the quality of teaching.
The council is working with a local telecoms service provider, Connexin, which built on Cisco's Kinetic for Cities platform - a subscription-based software that lets city operators view and manage data from multiple sensors, and from a single panel. Furqan Alamgir, founder of Connexin, told ZDNet: "We found that cities struggled to digitalise because they had lots of siloed systems.  The language that will communicate actionable information in real time, something that has not previously been available. It will be up to each community to decide how it wants to best utilize this new wealth of information.
The index also surveyed residents on the areas that they perceive to be of priority and as the most urgent for the city. For Singapore, the issues of affordable housing, fulfilling employment, unemployment and public transport came out as the highest priority areas. Mr Ng Chee Khern, Permanent Secretary (Smart Nation & Digital Government), said that the index is useful for policymakers to direct their work to what would most benefit citizens and businesses. He said: "Other indices focused mainly on experts' opinions of how well technology is used, rather than on how citizens feel or do not feel that technology is benefiting them..
5G airports could be a boon or a bane but either way, the technology is available and on display at IMC 2019. Using Huawei’s 5G network and AI solution, airports will be able to manage passenger flow and flight flow scenarios to optimise travel operations. Smart airport solutions will collect the required data using facial recognition technology allowing for self-service check-in, hierarchical security check, smart navigation, last call, in-flight passenger management, paperless luggage service and more.
 These services will run on Huawei’s indoor 5G technology that the company has dubbed ‘Wi-Fi 6’. It can support over 200 concurrent connections while maintaining high throughput — which means more bandwidth per user.  The event featured a keynote speech by Matteo Codazzi, CEO of CESI, a leading consultancy firm in the field and a research partner of Enel Foundation in different projects, as well and a roundtable with the participation of Andrea Caregari head of operations and maintenance at e-distribuzione, the Enel Group company managing electricity distribution grids in Italy. 
Professors Giuseppe Franco Ferrari and Edoardo Croci, coordinators of the Smart City Observatory, concluded the event by remarking, “the Smart City observatory established by Bocconi University offers key institutional and industrial players the opportunity to analyse and debate key topics regarding the economic and regulatory dynamics of smart cities.”  currently sits within separate council computer systems that enable city-wide management of the city's public assets in real time.
During the meeting, several presentations outlined how energy, water and waste management in urban areas increasingly rely on the use of smart infrastructures and smart grids. The interventions also underlined that new technologies allow efficient management and monitoring of services, with significant benefits for utilities and a reduction in operational costs. Moreover, smart accounting and pricing systems provide data of significant competitive value to operators, while at the same time allowing users to have information on their consumption, with positive effects on their behaviour. 

" This is not to say that the City Council will become entirely reliant on the technology, and that traffic lights or waste collection will fall apart the day that CityOS encounters IT issues, because the system won't store the data. This also means that the Council can choose whether or not to plug data into it. "We don't want to own the data," said Alamgir, "and it will only be visible to CityOS if the Council allows it to access it. This is the idea behind a 'programmable city.
Huawei also has its Intelligent City Surveillance solutions on display. Using a combination of artificial intelligence (AI) enabled cameras, the system can cover specific areas which may be vulnerable. It can track for intrusions, spot an abandoned object, identify when there’s theft is in progress, and look out for suspicious movement.
