Smart Cities

IoT paradigm is gaining ground in the wireless communication sector; it has a strong impact on different aspects of industry and society as well as dynamic working fields. Transportation and warehouses with valuable assets are some examples of the dynamic fields that are expected for IoT paradigm to play a significant role in fostering their development. Similarly, IoT will have an impact on fields, such as automation and logistics intelligent transportation of people and goods. Efficient data collection and monitoring is the key to manage cities and promote growth. Data collections is a crucial step in smart cities application. Thus, it requires data aggregation techniques due to the distributed sensors located across a large geographical area. Although, the distribution of sensors is application depended, whither the application is 5G smart city, 5G AI powered safe city, 5G airports, or 5G smart education and remote classrooms, the communications (data aggregation) among sensors can be enhanced by using central OS running on a major platform such as Cisco platform. Exciting smart cities such as Singapore focuses on applying intelligent technologies such as IoT in urban settings for fostering city assets and solving real life problems. Singapore which is the leading smart city showed substantial quality in the city infrastructure. Moreover, it proved that adapting technology can turn our livings into high quality life, benefiting from the collected data and turn it into actions to solve livings problems. Future smart cities will require to further evaluate the collected data. The importance of data become clearer with future smart cities that deals with collecting numerous data points from each sensor or device hence causing the data to be valued higher than oil. Another important aspect of data is how data are shared among parties/sensors, data and its related aspects promises a great wealth of informations for governments, stakeholders, and developers to utilize. One of the main companies that leads the market for smart cities is Huawei with their Intelligent Operation Center (IOC) that proposed several smart cities application, taking advantage of the rise of 5G connectivity. One application is 5G Smart City, the main operation of the application is a generic data collection/action procedure. In which the system process the data by aggregating them, analyze the data, and give actions according to the observed data.  5G AI Powered Safe City is another application proposed by Huaweis IOC, exploiting the advancement in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and integrate them into cameras that now have the capability to detect and recognize objects on high accuracy, such application can be used to provide safe environments. Another application pushed by Huaweis IOC is 5G Airports. Knowing that the airport is a dynamic environment Huaweis IOC proposed this application using 5G connectivity and AI techniques in order to facilitate logistics in airports which indirectly improves travel experience. Similarly, during IMC 2019 another applications Huaweis IOC presented was 5G Smart Education and Remote Classroom. In this application several AI techniques were used to efficiently track student focus and behavior for the purpose of enhancing learning experience and also to provide remote teaching with high connectivity facilitated by 5G technology. In conclusion, benefits of smart city are acknowledged well by societies and communities. The driving elements of smart cities are the infrastructure applied to it and the type of networks required by smart cities. Applications such as energy management can be a great value especially in big dynamic cities, in which the deployed sensors can efficiently monitor electric consumptions. This great value is considered to be a driving force that boosts the deployment of smart cities applications. Since smart cities applications are important and there is certain complexities related to its applications such as the shape and sizes of the cities which relies on the specific application developed wither its for energy or waste management, several talks and discussions has been made in order to facilitate this innovation and hopefully come up with a reference model that could be adopted and utilized in a range of smart paradigms that embrace the network, infrastructure to develop urban economies.
