Smart Cities

Smart cities: This city runs on its own operating system
Sensors distributed across the city will allow the collection of real-time data to improve services, says the council. Hull has just added its name next to Las Vegas, Copenhagen and Jaipur on the list of smart cities around the world, as the Yorkshire port city begins using what it is calls its own operating system to centralise data management and manage resources more efficiently.
Using Internet of Things  sensors distributed around the city to provide data in real-time data, Hull City Council says it will be able to better control street lighting, refuse collection, parking and traffic congestion, with the goal of providing better services at a reduced cost. 
The council is working with a local telecoms service provider, Connexin, which built on Cisco's Kinetic for Cities platform - a subscription-based software that lets city operators view and manage data from multiple sensors, and from a single panel.
 Furqan Alamgir, founder of Connexin, told ZDNet: "We found that cities struggled to digitalise because they had lots of siloed systems. For example, they might have an LED management system and a traffic management system, but the two wouldn't link to each other.
SINGAPORE - The smartest city in the world is Singapore, the inaugural IMD Smart City Index showed. Published by Swiss business school IMD and the Singapore University of Technology and Design, the index ranked cities in terms of how "smart" they are, which in this case was defined as an urban setting that applies technology to enhance the benefits and diminish the shortcomings of urbanization. 
The survey's findings were derived from the perceptions of the city's citizens, with 120 residents from each city polled on their ideas of two pillars: structures, which refers to the city's existing infrastructure; and technology, which refers to the technological provisions and services available to the residents. Under each pillar, the survey also looked at the categories of health and safety, mobility, activities, opportunities, and governance - each of which were in turn broken down into smaller indicators.
Singapore performed well across the board, including for the indicators of public safety, lifelong learning opportunities provided by local institutions, having green spaces, as well as having online access to job listings. Mr Christos Cabolis, chief economist at IMD Business School's Competitiveness Centre, told The Straits Times: "Singapore topped the ranking  because, according to its citizens, it is performing superbly in providing high quality infrastructure in the areas we study, while at the same time adopting technologies in an efficient way to make the lives of the Singaporeans better.
" Singapore is only one of two Asian cities to be in the Top 10 of 102 cities. Taipei is the other at No. 7. 
The rest of the Top 10 smartest cities are Zurich (second), Oslo (third), Geneva (fourth), Copenhagen (fifth), Auckland (sixth), Helsinki (eighth), Bilbao (ninth), and Dusseldorf (10th). 
The index also surveyed residents on the areas that they perceive to be of priority and as the most urgent for the city. For Singapore, the issues of affordable housing, fulfilling employment, unemployment and public transport came out as the highest priority areas. Mr Ng Chee Khern, Permanent Secretary (Smart Nation & Digital Government), said that the index is useful for policymakers to direct their work to what would most benefit citizens and businesses. 
He said: "Other indices focused mainly on experts' opinions of how well technology is used, rather than on how citizens feel or do not feel that technology is benefiting them. "For Singapore, our approach to building a Smart Nation has always been extremely citizen and business-focused to help make Singapore a better place to work, live, and play."
While sensors, radars and cameras may be what people think when they envision the smart cities of the future, data will be what make improvement to community life tangible.
 The insight gathered by new hardware and software around cities and rural areas will only be as good as how it is acted upon. Sarah Glova, Director of Growth and Communications at NC RIoT, recently participated in a prescient session at Smart Cities Connect in National Harbor, Maryland titled If Data is the New Oil, How do We Explore, Extract and Distribute Its Value? Collaboration between neighboring towns and governments is critical to this distribution, and challenges still exist on that front, but creating data standards could lead to more collaboration. 
“You can have a sensor that’s collecting data, but is it in the format you need? And as we think about cities that are right next to each other, if I’m measuring time in seconds and you’re measuring time in minutes, then that’s going to be a huge hurdle in how we share our data,” Glova told MarketScale. NC RIoT is a North Carolina-based non-profit that brings IoT companies, academics, governments and businesses together to advance connectivity in cities and rural areas alike. 
The spread of data from one municipality to another acts as the language that will communicate actionable information in real time, something that has not previously been available. It will be up to each community to decide how it wants to best utilize this new wealth of information.
5G Smart Cities 
Huawei’s Intelligent Operation Center (IOC) — a solution for smart cities in India — collects data from all the different subsystems of a city. It aggregates the data, cleans it up and analyses the results. The results display the overall status of the city and also gives advice on decision making. It also allows urban managers to gauge real-time resource management and keep an eye on the level of resources available in a city. In case of an emergency, it also allows for integration between service types — like call centers, GIS map, command centers as well as video and voice calling.
5G AI Powered Safe City
Huawei also has its Intelligent City Surveillance solutions on display. Using a combination of artificial intelligence (AI) enabled cameras, the system can cover specific areas which may be vulnerable. It can track for intrusions, spot an abandoned object, identify when there’s theft is in progress, and look out for suspicious movement. It can track for intrusions, spot an abandoned object, identify when there’s theft is in progress, and look out for suspicious movement.
The event featured a keynote speech by Matteo Codazzi, CEO of CESI, a leading consultancy firm in the field and a research partner of Enel Foundation in different projects, as well and a roundtable with the participation of Andrea Caregari head of operations and maintenance at e-distribuzione, the Enel Group company managing electricity distribution grids in Italy. Professors Giuseppe Franco Ferrari and Edoardo Croci, coordinators of the Smart City Observatory, concluded the event by remarking, “the Smart City observatory established by Bocconi University offers key institutional and industrial players the opportunity to analyse and debate key topics regarding the economic and regulatory dynamics of smart cities The system pulls together information that currently sits within separate council computer systems that enable city-wide management of the city.
