Smart Cities

Using Internet of Things (IoT) sensors distributed around the city to provide data in real-time data, Hull City Council says it will be able to better control street lighting, refuse collection, parking and traffic congestion, with the goal of providing better services at a reduced cost.
Yorkshire port city begins using what it is calls its own operating system to centralise data management and manage resources more efficiently.
building on Cisco's platform, we built a central OS that normalises all the data into one language, so that all the sensors can speak to one another seamlessly." The platform, called CityOS, pulls together and aggregates information from a range of different IoT sensors, before passing it on to city operators. This means the data is easier to visualise, and can then be used to better manage resources.
Councillor Daren Hale said: "The system pulls together information that currently sits within separate council computer systems that enable city-wide management of the city's public assets in real time." This is not to say that the City Council will become entirely reliant on the technology, and that traffic lights or waste collection will fall apart the day that CityOS encounters IT issues, because the system won't store the data. This also means that the Council can choose whether or not to plug data into it.
Sensors distributed across the city will allow the collection of real-time data to improve services, says the council.
Sensors installed inside the bins monitor waste levels, and the data is used to determine optimal times for waste collection or more efficient collection routes.  
Singapore is only one of two Asian cities to be in the Top 10 of 102 cities.
The smartest city in the world is Singapore, the inaugural IMD Smart City Index showed.
Singapore performed well across the board, including for the indicators of public safety, lifelong learning opportunities provided by local institutions, having green spaces, as well as having online access to job listings. Mr Christos Cabolis, chief economist at IMD Business School's Competitiveness Centre, told The Straits Times: "Singapore topped the ranking because, according to its citizens, it is performing superbly in providing high quality infrastructure in the areas we study, while at the same time adopting technologies in an efficient way to make the lives of the Singaporeans better."
For Singapore, our approach to building a Smart Nation has always been extremely citizen and business-focused to help make Singapore a better place to work, live, and play."
Permanent Secretary (Smart Nation & Digital Government), said that the index is useful for policymakers to direct their work to what would most benefit citizens and businesses. He said: "Other indices focused mainly on experts' opinions of how well technology is used, rather than on how citizens feel or do not feel that technology is benefiting them.
the index ranked cities in terms of how "smart" they are, which in this case was defined as an urban setting that applies technology to enhance the benefits and diminish the shortcomings of urbanisation. The survey's findings were derived from the perceptions of the city's citizens, with 120 residents from each city polled on their ideas of two pillars: structures, which refers to the city's existing infrastructure; and technology, which refers to the technological provisions and services available to the residents.
The spread of data from one municipality to another acts as the language that will communicate actionable information in real time, something that has not previously been available. It will be up to each community to decide how it wants to best utilize this new wealth of information.
While sensors, radars and cameras may be what people think when they envision the smart cities of the future, data will be what make improvement to community life tangible The insight gathered by new hardware and software around cities and rural areas will only be as good as how it is acted upon. “You can have a sensor that’s collecting data, but is it in the format you need?
Collaboration between neighboring towns and governments is critical to this distribution, and challenges still exist on that front, but creating data standards could lead to more collaboration
Huawei’s Intelligent Operation Center (IOC) The results display the overall status of the city and also gives advice on decision making. It also allows urban managers to gauge real-time resource management and keep an eye on the level of resources available in a city.
Using Huawei’s 5G network and AI solution, airports will be able to manage passenger flow and flight flow scenarios to optimise travel operations. Smart airport solutions will collect the required data using facial recognition technology allowing for self-service check-in, hierarchical security check, smart navigation,
These services will run on Huawei’s indoor 5G technology that the company has dubbed ‘Wi-Fi 6’. It can support over 200 concurrent connections while maintaining high throughput — which means more bandwidth per user. Huawei believes the Wi-Fi 6 solution can also be applied to virtual reality (VR), 4K video content streaming
Huawei also has its Intelligent City Surveillance solutions on display. Using a combination of artificial intelligence (AI) enabled cameras, the system can cover specific areas which may be vulnerable. It can track for intrusions, spot an abandoned object, identify when there’s theft is in progress, and look out for suspicious movement. It can track for intrusions, spot an abandoned object, identify when there’s theft is in progress, and look out for suspicious movement.
Huawei’s Cloudlink Board allows for smart classrooms to allow for interactive but remote teaching. Using a combination of 5G, Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data and AI,
The interventions also underlined that new technologies allow efficient management and monitoring of services, with significant benefits for utilities and a reduction in operational costs. Moreover, smart accounting and pricing systems provide data of significant competitive value to operators, while at the same time allowing users to have information on their consumption, with positive effects on their behaviour. 
"The system pulls together information that currently sits within separate council computer systems that enable city-wide management of the city's public assets in real time."
“utility led innovation in the management of infrastructures and networks is a prominent area of advancement in urban sustainability.
As a founding member of the Smart City Observatory at Bocconi University, Enel Foundation contributed to the event Infrastructures and networks for Smart Cities: what operational efficiency and social value impacts.
Bocconi’s GREEN (Centre for Research in Geography, Resources, Environment, Energy and Networks), established to conduct and promote multidisciplinary research oriented towards addressing policy-relevant issues at local and global scale.
During the meeting, several presentations outlined how energy, water and waste management in urban areas increasingly rely on the use of smart infrastructures and smart grids.
coordinators of the Smart City Observatory, concluded the event by remarking, “the Smart City observatory established by Bocconi University offers key institutional and industrial players the opportunity to analyse and debate key topics regarding the economic and regulatory dynamics of smart cities.”
