With the advancement of 5G and its applications such as smart cities it is expected that 50 billion connected objects will be deployed in smart cities by 2020. These sensors provides ease access to all existing things that are linked to the Internet. The reason behind this is that smart cities include sensor networks and connection of intelligent appliances to the internet which is essential to remotely monitor their performance such as power usage monitoring to improve the electricity usage, light management, and waste management. In order to achieve this aim, sensors are able to be extended at various locations to gather and analyze data for utilization improvement. According to Hull City Council in order to provide better services with low cost IoT is used to control street lighting, refuse collection, parking and traffic congestion. One of the platforms used for smart cities is Cisco's Kinetic platform supported by Connexin which is a telecom operator that provides access services to the platform. Cisco's Kinetic is a generic subscription-based software that allows the city to control the remotely distributed sensors by getting and posting data for digitalization purposes. The variety of applications and platform raised communication difficulty, thus Furqan Alamgir the founder of Connexin talked about the application dependency problem and focused on stating that there is a need for developing smart city applications on a unified platform such as Cisco's platform, creating a central OS that can run all application and eliminates application dependency. Another platform that promises seamless communication is CityOS, this platform operates by pulling data from sensors, aggregates them, and send them back to operators, acting as a generic platform for all smart cities applications. Moreover, the platform facilitates easier data visualization by providing city-wide management on a separate council. Another advantage of this platform is that there is no dependency on the collected data. Thus shutting down the platform wont affect the operation of the city. Such platforms can be used in the leading smart cities such as Singapore. Singapore is considered to be the leading smart city according to the inaugural IMD smart city Index published by Swiss business school IMD and the Singapore University of Technology and Design, the index merits showed that Singapore achieved both citizen satisfaction and high quality living, by solving the shortcomings of urbanization. Singapore applied technology where is needed such as structures (infrastructure) and technology capabilities offered to its citizens, these two main areas contributed to make Singapore the smartest city according the inaugural IMD smart city Index. Moreover, other indicators such as safety, mobility, activities, opportunities, and governance led to announce Singapore to be the smartest city. Generally, according to Mr Christos Cabolis, chief economist at IMD Business School's Competitiveness Centre stated that Singapore provided high quality living to its citizens with the help of smart cities applications. Such surveys are important for governments and stakeholders, for Singapore the aim always was to build a Smart Nation that is extremely citizen and business-focused to help make Singapore a better place to work, live, and play. On the other hand, the expansion of big data and the evolution of Real IoT technologies have played an important role in the feasibility of smart city initiatives. Data offer the potential for cities to obtain valuable insights from a large amount of data collected through various sensors, and the IoT allows the integration of sensors in the real-world environment using highly networked services. The combination of the IoT and data is a promising research avenue that has brought new and interesting challenges for achieving the goal of future smart cities.  The advancement in hardware and software in cities raise privacy concerns and its up to the gathering community and how they act upon these data. According to Sarah Glova, Director of Growth and Communications at NC RIoT it is crucial to create data standards especially when dealing with neighboring cities and towns with different governments due to the different policy diagrams of the neighboring governments. Enel foundation which is the founding member of the Smart City Observatory at Bocconi University discussed and contributed to the event Infrastructures and networks for Smart Cities: what operational efficiency and social value impacts. Moreover, it was also discussed the outcome value of infrastructures and networks from the applications of energy management, water and waste in urban areas for the different entities associated with the system. From the discussion it was noted that energy, water and waste management in urban areas increasingly rely on the use of smart infrastructures and smart grids with significant benefits for utilities and a reduction in operational costs. The key statement at the event was utility led innovation in the management of infrastructures and networks is a prominent area of advancement in urban sustainability. Enel Foundation actively participates in shaping the research agenda of the observatory and in bringing to evidence the best practices of Enel Group.
